Hello. In this video,
you're going to learn
about Euclidean distance,
which is a similarity metric.
This metric allows
you to identify
how far two points or
two vectors are apart
from each other.
During this segment,
you will get
the Euclidean distance between
two documents vectors
like the ones
from the previous video
and then generalize
that notion to vector spaces
in higher dimensions.
Let's use two of
the corpora vectors
you saw previously.
Remember in that example,
there were two dimensions.
The number of times that
the word data and the word
film appeared in the corpus.
Corpus A will be
the entertainment corpus and
Corpus B will be the
machine-learning corpus.
Now let's represent
those vectors
as points in the vector space.
The Euclidean distance is
the length of the straight
line segments connecting them.
To get that value, you should
use the following formula.
The first term is their
horizontal distance squared,
and the second term is their
vertical distance squared.
As you see, this formula is
an example of the
Pythagorean theorem.
If you solve for each of
the terms in the equation,
you should arrive
at this expression,
and at last get a
Euclidean distance
approximately equal to 10,667.
Feel free to pause the video
and check this process.
When you have higher dimensions,
the Euclidean distance is
not much more difficult.
Let's walk through
an example using
the following
co-occurrence matrix.
Suppose that you want to
know the Euclidean distance
between the vector v of
the word ice cream and
the vector representation
w of the word the boba.
To start, you need to get
the difference between
each of their dimensions.
Square those differences,
sum them up,
and then get the square
roots of your results.
This process is
the generalization
of the one from the last slide.
This is the formula that you
would use to get the
Euclidean distance
between vector
representations on
an n-dimensional vector space.
If you remember from algebra,
this formula is
known as the norm of
the difference between the
vectors that you are comparing.
Let's take a look at
the implementation of the
Euclidean distance in Python.
If you have two vector
representations
like the ones from
the previous example,
you can use the lean
alg module from
NumPy to get the norm of the
difference between them.
If you implement
this code in Python,
you should get these results.
The norm function works
for n-dimensional spaces.
The primary takeaways here
are that the Euclidean
distance is basically
the length of the straight
line that connects
two vectors and that
together Euclidean distance,
you have to calculate
the norm of
the difference between
the vectors that
you are comparing.
By using this metric,
you can get a sense of how
similar two documents
or words are.
Now that you have learned
Euclidean distance,
in the next video,
I'll show you a different
type of similarity function.
Concretely, I'll show you the
cosine similarity function,
which is one of the most
popular similarity functions.
See you in the next video.